WBTC offboarding Governance Polls 2024-09-16 (#2741)
makerdao/community: governance/polls/WBTC Offboarding - Phase 5 - September 16, 2024.md

- **You should vote for the option which you prefer.**
- **If you would accept either option, you should vote 'Abstain'.**

## Review

The community can vote in this poll to express support or opposition to the WBTC collateral types offboarding parameters described below.

The WBTC collateral types offboarding will take place progressively over the course of several Executive Votes, with the one associated with this Governance Poll being the last one. The tentative starting date for the Executive Vote corresponding to this Governance Poll can be found below under _Outcomes_.

### Legacy Vaults

- Increase liquidation Ratios for WBTC-A, WBTC-B, and/or WBTC-C to trigger liquidation of any remaining positions.

### SparkLend

- Reduce [Liquidation Threshold](https://docs.aave.com/risk/asset-risk/risk-parameters#liquidation-threshold) from 35% to **0%**.

Please review the discussion [thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/wbtc-changes-and-risk-mitigation-10-august-2024/24844/26) to help inform your position before voting.

## Outcomes

**If the votes for the 'Yes' option exceed the votes for the 'No' option then the following actions will be taken:**

> - This change will be included in an upcoming Executive Vote tentatively starting in November, 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This change will be included in a later spell of Phase 4, tentatively in November 2024.
```

---
title: Offboarding Parameters for WBTC Collateral Types - Phase 5 - September 16, 2024
summary: Signal your support or opposition to the WBTC-A, WBTC-B, and WBTC-C offboarding parameter changes included herein.
discussion_link: https://forum.makerdao.com/t/wbtc-changes-and-risk-mitigation-10-august-2024/24844/26
parameters:
    input_format: single-choice
    victory_conditions:
        - { type : plurality }
    result_display: single-vote-breakdown
version: v2.0.0
options:
   0: Abstain
   1: Yes
   2: No
start_date: 2024-09-16T16:00:00
end_date: 2024-09-19T16:00:00
---
# Poll: Offboarding Parameters for WBTC Collateral Types - Phase 5 - September 16, 2024

> The Governance Facilitators have placed a Governance Poll into the voting system on behalf of the Ecosystem team. This Governance [Poll](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/governance-cycle/weekly-governance-cycle#weekly-governance-cycle-definitions-mip16c1) will be active for three days beginning on Monday, September 16 at 16:00 UTC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Governance Facilitators have placed a Governance Poll into the voting system on behalf of the Ecosystem team. This Governance [Poll](https://sky-atlas.powerhouse.io/#A.1.9.1_Operational_Weekly_Cycle-b189fa17-57a9-4d4e-9780-0ce4efd94211|0db30308) will be active for three days beginning on Monday, September 16 at 16:00 UTC.
```

**This is a binary vote.**

- **You may vote for a single option.**
- **You should vote for the option which you prefer.**
- **If you would accept either option, you should vote 'Abstain'.**

## Review

The community can vote in this poll to express support or opposition to the WBTC collateral types offboarding parameters described below.

The WBTC collateral types offboarding will take place progressively over the course of several Executive Votes, with the one associated with this Governance Poll being the last one. The tentative starting date for the Executive Vote corresponding to this Governance Poll can be found below under _Outcomes_.

### Legacy Vaults

- Increase liquidation Ratios for WBTC-A, WBTC-B, and/or WBTC-C to trigger liquidation of any remaining positions.

### SparkLend

> - Reduce Liquidation Threshold from 35% to **0%**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reduce [Liquidation Threshold](https://docs.aave.com/risk/asset-risk/risk-parameters#liquidation-threshold) from 35% to **0%**.
```

Please review the discussion [thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/wbtc-changes-and-risk-mitigation-10-august-2024/24844/26) to help inform your position before voting.

## Outcomes

**If the votes for the 'Yes' option exceed the votes for the 'No' option then the following actions will be taken:**

- This change will be included in an upcoming Executive Vote tentatively starting in November, 2024.

> - It is expected that this Executive Vote will take place within 30 days of this poll passing, absent external factors.

Reviewer 2: Same as before, November is more than 30 days away :)

- If the Executive Vote passes, then these changes will become active in the Sky Protocol after the [GSM Pause Delay](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-gsm-pause-delay) has expired.

**If the votes for the 'No' option equal or exceed the votes for the 'Yes' option then no further action will be taken at this time.**

---

## Resources

If you are new to voting in the Sky Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

Additional information about the Governance process can be found in the [Maker Operational Manual](https://manual.makerdao.com).

> To add current and upcoming votes to your calendar, please see the [MakerDAO Governance Calendar](https://manual.makerdao.com/makerdao/calendars/governance-calendar).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add current and upcoming votes to your calendar, please see the [Sky Governance Calendar](https://manual.makerdao.com/makerdao/calendars/governance-calendar).
```
